Welcome back.
How are we going to build this stool.
How are we going to know what passwords have been hacked and what does it really mean anyway.
Well passwords get leaked all the time.
We've heard about data breaches right.
Facebook has been hacked with data breaches Equifax linked in Yahoo.
All these big companies sometimes get their databases leaked and essentially what happens sometimes
is are usernames and passwords get leaked to the public.
And hackers what they do is they compile these lists of leaked usernames and passwords and essentially
try to log in to different services.
So there are databases or you can't think of them as massive Excel files of all emails and passwords
that have ever been leaked throughout history.
And there's actually a Web site created by somebody called Troy Hunt who's a very famous security researcher.
And it's called Have I been Ponte and what you can do here is you can actually enter your email address
and say let's go Andy at gmail dot com.
Has this ever been leaked Oh no.
It looks like it's been porn so it looks like it's been pawned on 88 breached sites and found 27 pastes
what this means essentially is that this email has been part of a data breach.
So maybe I used this e-mail as my Facebook log in.
Well when Facebook got hacked and some users maybe stole user information.
Well this email was part of it as a matter of fact out of for 88 breaches and if I go to passwords here
you can actually do the same thing about passwords.
I can check my password and you can see over here that it doesn't show.
And I can click over here to see if it's been popped.
Now I just enter some gibberish here and it looks like no no punished found.
But why does this matter.
Why do we care that e mails and passwords have been leaked hackers who use something called dictionary
attacks a dictionary attack.
Well kind of like a Python dictionary uses a massive dictionary with the key and value of let's say
a username and password and just tries to log into Web sites using these massive lists of information
and if your username and password has ever been leaked.
Well a hacker simply runs what's called a brute force attack where it just loops through all these leaked
usernames and passwords and tries to log in.
So maybe going into Facebook and just looping through this massive list eventually they're going to
hit something and be able to log in.
Now here's the thing this isn't a web development course.
I mean this course is about Python and although we have a section on web development what I can tell
you is that most of the time even though I trust this Web site it uses something called HDD P.S. which
is encrypted I or you should never really trust a Web site with your password.
Yes maybe a big Web site like Facebook maybe Google we trust but ideally you don't want to send your
password like this over the Internet because what's happening here as soon as I click this is that it's
being transferred to a server somewhere in the world.
It's traveling through the Internet wires and somebody could intercept it.
So there's actually a more secure way of doing this.
And this is why we're going to build this Web site actually gives us a password API for us to do this
and check our passwords.
But in a more secure way because sure we might trust this Web site but the best security is to trust
no one.
Right now what I'm about to show you and why we're going to do is actually a technique used by legitimate
password managers like keeper one password.
You might have heard of Blur sticky password.
These are expensive password managers that keep your passwords secure.
But we're going to build that ourselves because we're programmers.
So in the next video we're actually going to start coding a bit and learning about this passwords API.
I'll see in the next one by.